---
layout: ../../layouts/blog.astro
published: true
title: How to Use
description: Some suggestions for how to use this starter.
author: Chris Tham
date: 2021-10-16T00:00:00.000Z
featuredpost: false
image: ../images/undraw/undraw_building_websites_i78t.png
tags:
  - Instructions
---

1. Clone your own version of the starter template or fork the repository. Run `yarn` then `yarn build` or `yarn develop`.
2. The default colour scheme is purple to match the Gatsby logo. Change to your preferred hue by doing a global search and replace of '-purple-' to your favourite colour.
3. The home (landing) page consists of a number of components (Hero, Feature, CTA, ...) - edit these components in `src/components` to customise.
4. The `/contact` page displays an OpenStreetMaps map via Leaflet - customise by changing to your preferred set of coordinates.
5. `src/config.ts` has all the site parameters - edit site metadata to suit.
6. Create new MDX pages in `src/pages/blog` (using either `.md` or `.mdx` extension). Add new components to MDX in the `src/pages/{mdx.slug}.tsx` file.
7. Any content created in the `src/pages/blog` subdirectory will automatically be a blog post. Use `src/pages/post/2000-01-01-template.md` as a base for creating a new blog post.
8. If you create a new tag (eg. `newtag`) a new tag page will be created ie. `/tags/newtag`. The `/tags` page will enumerate all tags.
9. If you want to change the footer, edit `src/components/header.astro`. Similarly, edit `src/components/footer.astro` to customise the footer.
10. If you make a lot of changes, use `yarn type-check` to check everything is okay.

## SendGrid configuration (for contact form)

Insert the following environment variables (either in .env or on deployment host):

- `SENDGRID_API_KEY`
- `SENDGRID_AUTHORIZED_EMAIL`