---
layout: ../../layouts/blog.astro
title: How to Use
description: Some suggestions for how to use this starter.
author: Chris Tham
publishDate: 2022-08-27T00:00:00.000Z
coverSVG: ../svg/undraw/undraw_building_websites.svg
socialImage: ../images/undraw/undraw_building_websites.png
categories:
  - instructions
tags:
  - astro
  - help
  - starter
---

1. Clone your own version of the starter template or fork the repository. Run `yarn` then `yarn build` or `yarn dev`.
2. The default colour scheme is purple (`#663399`). Change to your preferred hue by doing a global search and replace of '-purple-' to your favourite colour.
3. The home (landing) page consists of a number of components (Hero, Feature, CTA, ...) - edit these components in `src/components` to customise.
4. The `/contact` page displays an OpenStreetMaps map via Leaflet - customise by changing to your preferred set of coordinates.
5. `src/config.ts` has all the site parameters and navigation links - edit to suit.
6. Create new Markdown or MDX pages in `src/pages/blog` (using either `.md` or `.mdx` extension).
7. Any content created in the `src/pages/blog` subdirectory will automatically be a blog post. Use `src/pages/post/2000-01-01-template.md` as a base for creating a new blog post. Remember to set the `default` property in the frontmatter to `false` when you want to publish the page.
8. If you create a new tag (eg. `newtag`) a new tag page will be created ie. `/tag/newtag`. The `/tags` page will enumerate all tags.
9. Similarly, a new category (eg. `newcat`) will create a page in `/category/newcat`. The `/categories` page will enumerate all categories. You can further customise categories to include an SVG cover image, social image and description by adding your new category in `CategoryDetail` in `src/config.ts`.
10. Blog, category, tag index pages support pagination. You can set the number of posts per page by changing `PAGE_SIZE` in `src/config.ts`.
11. If you want to change the header, edit `src/components/header.astro`. Similarly, edit `src/components/footer.astro` to customise the footer.
12. If you make a lot of changes, use `yarn lint` to check everything is okay.
13. `yarn format` will pretty-print all code in the `src` folder.
