---
title: Roadmap
description: List of features to be considered for future versions of this starter.
author: chris-tham
publishDate: 2023-06-12T00:00:00.000Z
coverSVG: ../../assets/svg/undraw/undraw_scrum_board.svg
socialImage: ../../assets/undraw/undraw_scrum_board.png
categories:
  - information
tags:
  - roadmap
  - astro
  - sponsor
---

The following are some potential features that are being considered as enhancements to this starter. Please consider [sponsoring](https://github.com/sponsors/hellotham) us if these features are important to you and you would like them to be implemented sooner. Alternately, if you want to implement any of these features, please let us know and we will be happy to support you!

- ~~searching within website~~
- ~~support for SVG featured images in posts and pages~~
- ~~Light vs Dark themes~~
- ~~KaTeX support in MDX~~
- ~~post and tag pagination~~
- ~~full support for authors (with author profiles and avatars)~~
- ~~photo gallery support (as an MDX component)~~
- ~~Support for diagrams eg. mermaidjs, plantuml, etc.~~
- ~~Automatic optimization of images in Markdown/MDX posts~~
- ~~Use Astro collections~~
- ~~Convert from using yarn to pnpm~~
- ~~Include Markdoc support~~
- Convert from Tailwind to UnoCSS
- Lazyload images
- Integration to popular headless CMS (eg. Sanity, Strapi)
- Integration to mailing list providers (eg. MailChimp)
- Integration to Git based CMS (eg. TinaCMS or NetlifyCMS)
- NextJS version of starter

Current issues:

- remark/rehype plugins are not processed on Markdoc documents. So reading time, diagrams, math are
  not supported. Use Markdoc only if you are not using any of these features.
- Better support for Mermaid (awaiting possible official integration by Astro)
- Should really use load Mermaid and Markmap scripts from packages rather than external CDN.
